Add the AdGuard Home secion, move a few articles (#164)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBaseDNS: docs/adguard-home/faq.md

1. On Windows, open a Terminal window (Start → Run → `cmd.exe`). On other systems, open your Terminal application.

1. Execute `nslookup example.org`. It will print something like this:

   ```none
   Server: 192.168.0.1
   Address: 192.168.0.1#53

   Non-authoritative answer:
   Name: example.org
   Address: <IPv4>
   Name: example.org
   Address: <IPv6>
   ```

1. Check if the `Server` IP address is the one on which AdGuard Home is running. If not, you need to configure your device, see [below](#defaultdns).

1. Ensure that your request to `example.org` appears in the AdGuard Home UI on the *Query Log* page. If not, you need to configure AdGuard Home to listen on the specified network interface. The most straightforward way to do so is to reinstall AdGuard Home with default settings.

If you are sure that your device uses AdGuard Home as its default DNS server, but the problem persists, it might have something to do with an AdGuard Home misconfiguration. Please check and ensure that:

1. You have the “Block domains using filters and hosts files” setting enabled on the *Settings → General settings* page.

> 1. You have the appropriate safety mechanisms, such as Parental Control, enabled on the *Settings → General settings* page.

Reviewer: а как это с рекламой связано?

Author: Улучшил заголовок.

1. You have the appropriate filters enabled on the *Filters → DNS blocklists* page.

1. You don't have any exception rule lists that may allow the requests enabled on the *Filters → DNS allowlists* page.

> 1. You don't have any DNS rewrites that may interfere with the *Filters → DNS rewrites* page.

Reviewer: не совсем понимаю формулировку. "DNS rewrites interfere with DNS rewrites page", это как?

и в следующем пункте похожий вопрос

Author: Был неверный предлог.

1. You don't have any custom filtering rules that may interfere with the *Filters → Custom filtering rules* page.

## Where can I inspect the logs? {#logs}

The default location of the plain-text logs (not to be confused with the query logs) depends on the operating system and installation mode:

<!-- TODO(a.garipov): Add more info about Docker; add links to tools. -->

- **OpenWrt Linux:** use the `logread -e AdGuardHome` command.

- **Linux** systems with **systemd** and other **Unix** systems with **SysV-style init:** `/var/log/AdGuardHome.err`.

- **macOS:** `/var/log/AdGuardHome.stderr.log`.

- **Linux** systems with **Snapcraft** use the `snap logs adguard-home` command.

> - **FreeBSD:** `/var/log/daemon.log` (**since v0.108.0-b.4**). Before **v0.108.0-b.4** no logs are written by default.

Reviewer: а если не бай дефолт и включены? Тогда при включении юзер обязан сам прописать путь?

Author: Устаревшая информация.  Убарл.

- **OpenBSD:** `/var/log/daemon` (**since v0.108.0-b.4**). Before **v0.108.0-b.4** no logs are written by default.

- On **Windows:** the [Windows Event Log][wlog] is used.

[wlog]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/wes/windows-event-log

## How to configure AdGuard Home to write verbose-level logs? {#verboselog}

To troubleshoot a complicated issue, the verbose-level logging is sometimes required. Here's how to enable it:

1. Stop AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   ./AdGuardHome -s stop
   ```

1. Configure AdGuard Home to write verbose-level logs:

   1. Open `AdGuardHome.yaml` in your editor.

   1. Set `log.file` to the desired path of the log file, for example `/tmp/aghlog.txt`. Note that the directory must exist.

   1. Set `log.verbose` to `true`.

   **NOTE:** Before v0.107.34 use `verbose` and `log_file` properties.

1. Restart AdGuard Home and reproduce the issue:

   ```sh
   ./AdGuardHome -s start
   ```

> 

Reviewer: не нужно писать что "не забудьте переключить обратно после воспроизведения ошибки"?

## How to show a custom block page? {#customblock}

> ### A note about HTTPS

Reviewer: у нас есть функционал `:::note:::` в кб, предлагаю его использовать вместо h3

1. Click “Save”.

## How to change dashboard interface's address? {#webaddr}

1. Stop AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   ./AdGuardHome -s stop
   ```

1. Open `AdGuardHome.yaml` in your editor.

1. Set the `http.address` setting to a new network interface. For example:

   - `0.0.0.0:0` to listen on all network interfaces;
   - `0.0.0.0:8080` to listen on all network interfaces with port `8080`;
   - `127.0.0.1:0` to listen on the local loopback interface only.

1. Restart AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   ./AdGuardHome -s start
   ```

## How to set up AdGuard Home as default DNS server? {#defaultdns}

See the [“Configuring Devices” section](getting-started.md#configure-devices) on the *Getting Started* page.

## Are there any known limitations? {#limitations}

Here are some examples of what cannot be blocked by a DNS-level blocker:

- YouTube, Twitch ads.

- Facebook, Twitter, Instagram sponsored posts.

Essentially, any advertising that shares a domain with content cannot be blocked by a DNS-level blocker.

### Is there a chance to handle this in the future?

> DNS will never be enough to do this. Your only option is to use a content blocking proxy like what we do in the standalone AdGuard applications. We're going to bring this feature support to AdGuard Home in the future. Unfortunately, even in this case, there still will be cases when this won't be enough or would require quite complicated configuration.

Reviewer: standalone AdGuard applications — здесь можно ссылка на адблокер кб или на главную сайта, не знаю

1. Activate another `resolv.conf` file:

   ```sh
   sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.backup
   sudo ln -s /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
   ```

1. Restart `DNSStubListener`:

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl reload-or-restart systemd-resolved
   ```

After that, `systemd-resolved` shouldn't be shown in the output of `lsof`, and AdGuard Home should be able to bind to `127.0.0.1:53`.

## How to configure a reverse proxy server for AdGuard Home? {#reverseproxy}

If you're already running a web server and want to access the AdGuard Home dashboard UI from a URL like `http://YOUR_SERVER/aghome/`, you can use this configuration for your web server:

### nginx

```nginx
location /aghome/ {
 proxy_cookie_path / /aghome/;
 proxy_pass http://AGH_IP:AGH_PORT/;
 proxy_redirect / /aghome/;
 proxy_set_header Host $host;
}
```

### caddy

```none
:80/aghome/* {
 route {
 uri strip_prefix /aghome
 reverse_proxy AGH_IP:AGH_PORT
 }
}
```

Or, if you just want to serve AdGuard Home with automatic TLS, use a configuration similar to the example shown below:

```none
DOMAIN {
 encode gzip zstd
 tls YOUR_EMAIL@DOMAIN
 reverse_proxy AGH_IP:AGH_PORT
}
```

> ### Disable DoH encryption on AdGuard Home

Reviewer: Идёт тот же уровень заголовка, что и `caddy`, `nginx`. Не уверен, правильно ли это

Author: Да, вроде верно сейчас.

[issue 3281]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/issues/3281
[issue 765]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/issues/765#issuecomment-752262353

## How to fix `incompatible file system` errors? {#incompatfs}

You should move your AdGuard Home installation or working directory to another location. See the [limitations section](getting-started.md#limitations) on the *Getting Started* page.

## How to update AdGuard Home manually? {#manual-update}

In case the button isn't shown or an automatic update has failed, you can update manually. In the examples below, we'll use AdGuard Home releases for Linux and Windows for AMD64 CPUs.

### Unix (Linux, macOS, BSD) {#manual-update-unix}

1. Download the new AdGuard Home package from the [releases page][releases]. If you want to perform this step from the command line:

   ```sh
   curl -L -S -o '/tmp/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz' -s\
   'https://static.adguard.com/adguardhome/release/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz'
   ```

   Or, with `wget`:

   ```sh
   wget -O '/tmp/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz'\
   'https://static.adguard.com/adguardhome/release/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz'
   ```

> 1. Navigate to the directory where AdGuard Home was installed. On most Unix systems the default directory is `/opt/AdGuardHome`, but on macOS it's `/Applications/AdGuardHome`.

Reviewer: почему was а не is?

   ```sh
   mkdir -p ~/my-agh-backup
   cp -r ./AdGuardHome.yaml ./data ~/my-agh-backup/
   ```

1. Unpack the AdGuard Home archive to a temporary directory. For example, if you downloaded the archive to your `~/Downloads` directory and want to unpack it to `/tmp/`:

   ```sh
   tar -C /tmp/ -f ~/Downloads/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz -x -v -z
   ```

   On macOS, something like:

   ```sh
   unzip -d /tmp/ ~/Downloads/AdGuardHome_darwin_amd64.zip
   ```

1. Replace the old AdGuard Home executable file with the new one. On most Unix systems the command would look something like:

   ```sh
   sudo cp /tmp/AdGuardHome/AdGuardHome /opt/AdGuardHome/AdGuardHome
   ```

   On macOS, something like:

   ```sh
   sudo cp /tmp/AdGuardHome/AdGuardHome /Applications/AdGuardHome/AdGuardHome
   ```

   You may also want to copy the documentation parts of the package, such as the change log (`CHANGELOG.md`), the README file (`README.md`), and the license (`LICENSE.txt`).

   You can now remove the temporary directory.

1. Restart AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   sudo ./AdGuardHome -s start
   ```

> (On OpenBSD you probably want to use `doas` instead of `sudo`.)

Reviewer: скобки не нужны тут

Reviewer: Можно использовать `:::note` если не хочется писать прямо

   New-Item -Path $newDir -ItemType Directory
   Copy-Item -Path .\AdGuardHome.yaml, .\data -Destination $newDir -Recurse
   ```

1. Unpack the AdGuard Home archive to a temporary directory. For example, if you downloaded the archive to your `Downloads` directory and want to unpack it to a temporary directory:

   ```ps1
   $outFile = Join-Path -Path $Env:USERPROFILE -ChildPath 'Downloads\AdGuardHome_windows_amd64.zip'
   Expand-Archive -Path "$outFile" -DestinationPath $Env:TEMP
   ```

1. Replace the old AdGuard Home executable file with the new one. For example:

   ```ps1
   $aghExe = Join-Path -Path $Env:TEMP -ChildPath 'AdGuardHome\AdGuardHome.exe'
   Copy-Item -Path "$aghExe" -Destination .\AdGuardHome.exe
   ```

   You may also want to copy the documentation parts of the package, such as the change log (`CHANGELOG.md`), the README file (`README.md`), and the license (`LICENSE.txt`).

   You can now remove the temporary directory.

1. Restart AdGuard Home:

   ```ps1
   .\AdGuardHome.exe -s start
   ```

## How to uninstall AdGuard Home? {#uninstall}

The way to uninstall AdGuard Home depends on how you installed it.

> **IMPORTANT:** After uninstalling AdGuard Home, don't forget to change your devices configuration and point them to a different DNS server.

Reviewer: тоже можно через `:::`, там есть разные опции, не только note

Most likely, you haven’t configured your device to use AdGuard Home as the default DNS server. To check if you’re using AdGuard Home as your default DNS server:

1. On Windows, open a Terminal window (*Start* → *Run* → `cmd.exe`). On other systems, open your Terminal application.

1. Execute `nslookup example.org`. It will print something like this:

   ```none
   Server: 192.168.0.1
   Address: 192.168.0.1#53

   Non-authoritative answer:
   Name: example.org
   Address: <IPv4>
   Name: example.org
   Address: <IPv6>
   ```

1. Check if the `Server` IP address is the one where AdGuard Home is running. If not, you need to configure your device accordingly. See [below](#defaultdns) how to do this.

1. Ensure that your request to `example.org` appears in the AdGuard Home UI on the *Query Log* page. If not, you need to configure AdGuard Home to listen on the specified network interface. The easiest way to do this is to reinstall AdGuard Home with default settings.

If you are sure that your device is using AdGuard Home as its default DNS server, but the problem persists, it may be due to a misconfiguration of AdGuard Home. Please check and make sure that:

> 1. You have enabled the *Block domains using filters and hosts files* setting on the *Settings → General settings* page.

Reviewer: Это встречается и в других местах, не только здесь

1. You have enabled the appropriate security mechanisms, such as Parental Control, on the *Settings → General settings* page.

1. You have enabled the appropriate filters on the *Filters → DNS blocklists* page.

1. You don’t have any exception rule lists that may allow the requests enabled on the *Filters → DNS allowlists* page.

1. You don’t have any DNS rewrites that may interfere on the *Filters → DNS rewrites* page.

1. You don’t have any custom filtering rules that may interfere on the *Filters → Custom filtering rules* page.

## Where can I view the logs? {#logs}

The default location of the plain-text logs (not to be confused with the query logs) depends on the operating system and installation mode:

> <!-- TODO(a.garipov): Add more info about Docker; add links to tools. -->

Author: В следующих, вероятнее всего.

[pxsrv]: https://github.com/kvic-z/pixelserv-tls

### Custom block page for Parental Control and Safe Browsing filters

There is currently no way to set these parameters from the UI, so you’ll need to edit the configuration file manually:

1. Stop AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   ./AdGuardHome -s stop
   ```

1. Open `AdGuardHome.yaml` in your editor.

1. Set the `dns.parental_block_host` or `dns.safebrowsing_block_host` settings to the IP address of the server (in this example, `192.168.123.45`):

   ```yaml
   # …
   dns:
     # …

     # NOTE: Change to the actual IP address of your server.
     parental_block_host: 192.168.123.45
     safebrowsing_block_host: 192.168.123.45
   ```

1. Restart AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   ./AdGuardHome -s start
   ```

### Custom block page for other filters

1. Open the web UI.

1. Open the *Settings → DNS settings* page.

1. In the *DNS server configuration* section, select the *Custom IP* radio button in the *Blocking mode* selector and enter the IPv4 and IPv6 addresses of the server.

> 1. Click *Save.*

Author: @el-termikael, on the one hand, I see why, but don't we generally include punctuation into italic text?

> 1. Click *Save.*

Reviewer 2: @ainar-g I'm not sure anymore. I wouldn't include it in Russian, but probably it's different for English

Firstly, AdGuard Home can detect such configurations and disable `systemd-resolved` for you if you press the *Fix* button, which is shown near the `address already in use` message on the installation screen.

Secondly, if that doesn’t work, follow the guide below. Note that if you’re using AdGuard Home with docker or snap, you’ll have to do it yourself.

1. Create the `/etc/systemd/resolved.conf.d` directory, if necessary:

   ```sh
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/resolved.conf.d
   ```

1. Deactivate `DNSStubListener` and update DNS server address. To do that, create a new file, `/etc/systemd/resolved.conf.d/adguardhome.conf`, with the following content:

   ```service
   [Resolve]
   DNS=127.0.0.1
   DNSStubListener=no
   ```

 Specifying `127.0.0.1` as DNS server address **is necessary** because otherwise the nameserver will be `127.0.0.53` which doesn’t work without `DNSStubListener`.

1. Activate another `resolv.conf` file:

   ```sh
   sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.backup
   sudo ln -s /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
   ```

1. Restart `DNSStubListener`:

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl reload-or-restart systemd-resolved
   ```

> After that, `systemd-resolved` shouldn’t be shown in the output of `lsof`, and AdGuard Home should be able to bind to `127.0.0.1:53`.

Author: The former, I feel.

### Real IP addresses of clients

You can set the parameter `trusted_proxies` to the IP address(es) of your HTTP proxy to make AdGuard Home take the headers containing the real client IP address into account. See the [configuration][conf] and [encryption][encr] pages for more information.

[encr]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/wiki/Encryption#reverse-proxy
[conf]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/wiki/Configuration

## How to fix `permission denied` errors on Fedora? {#fedora}

1. Move the `AdGuardHome` binary to `/usr/local/bin`.

1. As `root`, execute the following command to change the security context of the file:

   ```sh
   chcon -t bin_t /usr/local/bin/AdGuardHome
   ```

1. Add the required firewall rules in order to make it reachable through the network. For example:

   ```sh
   firewall-cmd --new-zone=adguard --permanent
   firewall-cmd --zone=adguard --add-source=192.168.0.14/24 --permanent
   firewall-cmd --zone=adguard --add-port=3000/tcp --permanent
   firewall-cmd --zone=adguard --add-port=53/udp --permanent
   firewall-cmd --zone=adguard --add-port=80/tcp --permanent
   firewall-cmd --reload
   ```

> If you are still getting `code=exited status=203/EXEC` or similar errors from `systemctl`, try uninstalling AdGuard Home and installing *directly* into `/usr/local/bin` by using the `-o` option of the install script:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are still getting `code=exited status=203/EXEC` or similar errors from `systemctl`, try uninstalling AdGuard Home and installing it *directly* into `/usr/local/bin` by using the `-o` option of the install script:
```

```sh
curl -s -S -L 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/master/scripts/install.sh' | sh -s -- -o '/usr/local/bin' -v
```

See [issue 765] and [issue 3281].

[issue 3281]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/issues/3281
[issue 765]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/issues/765#issuecomment-752262353

> ## How to fix `incompatible file system` errors? {#incompatfs}

Reviewer 2: здесь и ниже тот же комментарий про how to / how do I

You should move your AdGuard Home installation or working directory to another location. See the [limitations section](getting-started.md#limitations) on the *Getting Started* page.

## How to update AdGuard Home manually? {#manual-update}

> In case the button isn’t shown or an automatic update has failed, you can update manually. In the examples below, we’ll use AdGuard Home releases for Linux and Windows for AMD64 CPUs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the button isn’t displayed or an automatic update has failed, you can update manually. In the examples below, we’ll use AdGuard Home versions for Linux and Windows for AMD64 CPUs.
```

### Unix (Linux, macOS, BSD) {#manual-update-unix}

> 1. Download the new AdGuard Home package from the [releases page][releases]. If you want to perform this step from the command line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download the new AdGuard Home package from the [releases page][releases]. If you want to perform this step from the command line, type:
```

   ```sh
   curl -L -S -o '/tmp/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz' -s\
   'https://static.adguard.com/adguardhome/release/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz'
   ```

   Or, with `wget`:

   ```sh
   wget -O '/tmp/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz'\
   'https://static.adguard.com/adguardhome/release/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz'
   ```

1. Navigate to the directory where AdGuard Home is installed. On most Unix systems the default directory is `/opt/AdGuardHome`, but on macOS it’s `/Applications/AdGuardHome`.

1. Stop AdGuard Home:

   ```sh
   sudo ./AdGuardHome -s stop
   ```

   :::note OpenBSD

>    On OpenBSD you probably want to use `doas` instead of `sudo`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   On OpenBSD, you will probably want to use `doas` instead of `sudo`.
```

   :::

1. Backup your data. That is, your configuration file and the data directory (`AdGuardHome.yaml` and `data/` by default). For example, to backup your data to a new directory called `~/my-agh-backup`:

   ```sh
   mkdir -p ~/my-agh-backup
   cp -r ./AdGuardHome.yaml ./data ~/my-agh-backup/
   ```

> 1. Unpack the AdGuard Home archive to a temporary directory. For example, if you downloaded the archive to your `~/Downloads` directory and want to unpack it to `/tmp/`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Extract the AdGuard Home archive to a temporary directory. For example, if you downloaded the archive to your `~/Downloads` directory and want to extract it to `/tmp/`:
```

   ```sh
   tar -C /tmp/ -f ~/Downloads/AdGuardHome_linux_amd64.tar.gz -x -v -z
   ```

>    On macOS, something like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   On macOS, type something like:
```

   ```sh
   unzip -d /tmp/ ~/Downloads/AdGuardHome_darwin_amd64.zip
   ```

> 1. Replace the old AdGuard Home executable file with the new one. On most Unix systems the command would look something like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace the old AdGuard Home executable file with the new one. On most Unix systems the command would look something like this:
```

### Windows (Using PowerShell) {#manual-update-win}

In all examples below, the PowerShell must be run as Administrator.

1. Download the new AdGuard Home package from the [releases page][releases]. If you want to perform this step from the command line:

   ```ps1
   $outFile = Join-Path -Path $Env:USERPROFILE -ChildPath 'Downloads\AdGuardHome_windows_amd64.zip'
   $aghUri = 'https://static.adguard.com/adguardhome/release/AdGuardHome_windows_amd64.zip'
   Invoke-WebRequest -OutFile "$outFile" -Uri "$aghUri"
   ```

1. Navigate to the directory where AdGuard Home was installed. In the examples below, we’ll use `C:\Program Files\AdGuardHome`.

1. Stop AdGuard Home:

   ```ps1
   .\AdGuardHome.exe -s stop
   ```

1. Backup your data. That is, your configuration file and the data directory (`AdGuardHome.yaml` and `data/` by default). For example, to backup your data to a new directory called `my-agh-backup`:

   ```ps1
   $newDir = Join-Path -Path $Env:USERPROFILE -ChildPath 'my-agh-backup'
   New-Item -Path $newDir -ItemType Directory
   Copy-Item -Path .\AdGuardHome.yaml, .\data -Destination $newDir -Recurse
   ```

> 1. Unpack the AdGuard Home archive to a temporary directory. For example, if you downloaded the archive to your `Downloads` directory and want to unpack it to a temporary directory:

Reviewer 2: extract

   ```ps1
   $outFile = Join-Path -Path $Env:USERPROFILE -ChildPath 'Downloads\AdGuardHome_windows_amd64.zip'
   Expand-Archive -Path "$outFile" -DestinationPath $Env:TEMP
   ```

1. Replace the old AdGuard Home executable file with the new one. For example:

   ```ps1
   $aghExe = Join-Path -Path $Env:TEMP -ChildPath 'AdGuardHome\AdGuardHome.exe'
   Copy-Item -Path "$aghExe" -Destination .\AdGuardHome.exe
   ```

   You may also want to copy the documentation parts of the package, such as the change log (`CHANGELOG.md`), the README file (`README.md`), and the license (`LICENSE.txt`).

   You can now remove the temporary directory.

1. Restart AdGuard Home:

   ```ps1
   .\AdGuardHome.exe -s start
   ```

## How do I uninstall AdGuard Home? {#uninstall}

Depending on how you installed AdGuard Home, there are different ways to uninstall it.

> ::: caution

Reviewer: Пробел после `:::` не нужен

> The way to uninstall AdGuard Home depends on how you installed it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on how you installed AdGuard Home, there are different ways to uninstall it.
```

> After uninstalling AdGuard Home, don’t forget to change your devices configuration and point them to a different DNS server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After uninstalling AdGuard Home, don’t forget to change the configuration of your devices and point them to a different DNS server.
```
